Hi, everyone, in this lecture, we're going to draw our stars.
All right, so when it comes to drawing, drawing happens inside this game loop function, this is the
game look function.
You either call another function here and in that function call you draw the stars, which I think we
are going to see in our next project.
Or you just go ahead and straight up draw it in here.
I'm going to go ahead and straight up draw the stars in here.
So drawing the stars, first things first, we need to say the color.
So the color is going to be I'm just going to say canvas context.
Now, this time we are going to set the color of the background or this full color of the circle.
And I'm going to set it to Stars Color, OK?
We don't need quotes there.
So stars.
Stars color, so that's going to be our color and then what I want to do is I want to loop over that
because the reason that I'm looping over is because we are going to have different sizes.
We are going to have different locations and all that thing, because we have we have all this stuff
that we need to provide in here.
And also we have 1000 stars.
So we need to repeat either repeat ourselves 1000 times to create 1000 stars or just do a loop.
That's I mean, that's the whole ideology behind the loop to reduce our lines of code.
So it's going to start from zero and the loop variable is going to go all the way to stars number and
we're going to increment it by one each time.
Now, first off, let's grab the let's say Biggin path started our path Grauer function, which is canvas,
grab the context and say, OK, here is where the magic happens.
So we are going to say,
excuse me, we are going to say now inside this arc, we have a horizontal position, right?
We have our vertical position.
We have a radius.
We have our stardate angle and ending angle.
So what is the horizontal position now?
The horizontal position?
You can see that it is horizontal position, but there is one little thing that you need to consider,
and that is that because this array, it has objects as items inside of that.
If you want to grab this property of the object, you need to call that array.
So we are going to call that array with Stars Eye.
And each time I'm just going to put it right here, each time we grab, each time this loop runs, we
are going to grab one item from this array.
And inside that item, we have a horizontal funnel.
You can see that we have access to that.
We have a horizontal position.
We are going to do the same thing for the vertical position.
What about a radius?
We are going to do the same thing for our star radius.
There it is.
Now, what is the starting angle?
Of course, zero.
What is the ending angle?
It is going to be math that pi because we want circle, we are just going to say multiply by two.
That's it.
So the final thing is we have we have provided the path.
We have provided the dimensions.
Right, but what about the what about the circle itself?
Now we need to provide it that we need to say that go ahead and grab all of these and filled that circle.
So you remember us with our lines that we had.
We had to actually draw the lines.
So for the fellow method, whenever you say Phil style, you just have to say, Phil, now, the stroke
is no longer going to work because we are not specifying the strokes style.
We are specifying the Phil's style.
So you need to call in the fall method.
Whenever you call the Phil method, it is going to create all these circles for us and the color for
those is going to be this color.
If I save it and if I come here and there we go, these are all of our circle, so so you can see they
have random location, random size, but they don't have a random velocity.
But that's what we are going to fix.
Right.
So you can see that I'm not closing this for a loop because everything must happen within that.
The next thing that I want to do is I'm going to say update stars horizontal position.
So stars horizontal position we want to update.
That means that we want to grab our stars and we want to apply the velocity to it so it can move in
the horizontal position when the speed plus direction, its velocity.
That's why.
So we grab our all of our stars array and we are going to say I from there, whenever you say I, when
this loop variable I iterates over the the array of stars, each time it iterates, it is going to grab
one object from that array and that object has certain properties inside of it.
What are those properties.
Those properties are right here.
Whenever you grab the object, all these properties are at your disposal to use.
So what property do we want to use when it comes to horizontal position?
We want to use the horizontal position property and we want to add it on.
Keep in mind, we do not want to override the previous velocity with the next velocity.
We want to add the previous velocity to the next velocity.
So again, let's grab the stars array.
And when we call it, we have also at our disposal these two velocities because they are within this
object.
I just explained it.
I'm not going to explain it again.
Then in that case, it would seem repetitious, repetitive, so horizontal horizontal velocity.
Now we do have our horizontal velocity, but we have something called the time.
I think this is the third time that I'm clear in my throat.
So let me just take a sip of tea.
All right, so we have hour time difference, and I'm going to multiply this velocity by the time difference.
That's why we created those, right?
And because the time difference is in milliseconds, we need to convert it.
So because it's in seconds, we need to convert it to milliseconds.
That's why I'm just going to multiply it by zero point.
Zero point zero zero one.
All right, and.
There we go.
So if the time difference is 10 and you multiply it by this, you're going to get what this is really
difficult.
So multiply it by by point one, you get zero point zero one.
So 10 seconds is actually zero point zero one.
OK, you know, I think I may have explained it the other way around.
So the time difference, because it is in milliseconds, we want to convert it into seconds.
So if it is 1000 milliseconds, so let me clear this up 1000 milliseconds.
If I multiply it by 0.01, we are going to get one second.
Yeah, it was that milliseconds convert to seconds already.
Right.
So we have done this and if I save it and if I come here.
There we go.
Now here is the thing that I, I've been waiting so long to explain to you, and this is exactly what
it means by drawing a thing on the screen.
This is literally that.
So I'm going to zoom in for you.
For example, let's go ahead on this graph, something now.
You can see that these are faster fasters.
Let's refresh until they're slow.
So, for example, if I take into consideration this star, this star is moving from the left to the
right, but because our we are not clearing this canvas, the star is because it's moving from left
to right.
It's being redrawn after each time it has been redrawn on our screen, like motion picture, like animations.
You need to clear the screen so you can redraw it again.
We are not clearing the screen.
That's why you can see this.
Now, imagine if in movies a person is sitting, for example, on a on an a chair and the person is
standing up and moving to the other side of the room and you would see mirages or a mirage of that person
from that position that it's sitting.
He is sitting to the other side and you would see like 1000.
Different copies of that person and why don't you see that, why don't you see like 1000 different copies
of the person?
But in this case, we can see 1000 different copies of that specific star that we had because they clear
the screen and we do not.
Each time they redraw, they cleared the screen.
What what does it mean when the person stands up in the process?
There are 10 images of that person on the screen when it goes to the image.
Number two, it clears out image number one.
That's why you do not see that when it goes to image number 10, all the previous images have been removed,
have been cleared.
Now we need to do the same thing here.
So.
What how can we do that?
Let's think about that as well.
I'm doing a lot of theory because this is the building blocks.
When we get to our games, I'm not going to be explaining everything in depth because that way discourse
would get to like 200 hours.
I'm explaining it here because this is a simpler project and these ideas are better digestible, as
we would like to call it.
So what is the thing that is happening over and over and over and over?
That is this run stories.
And when this is happening 60 times a second, it means that we want to remove we want to clear the
screen how many times a second, 59 times a second.
Because the last one is the thing.
The last redrawing is the thing that we want to show to the user.
So how can we clear the screen 59 times a second?
So I'm going to say canvas.
There is another cool method that is available to us and that is clear.
Come on.
Clear, direct.
And it is going to get graph for prime arguments.
One, the position position zero exposition zero.
Why now the X and Y are going to be the same and then the canvas dimensions, the canvas dimension is
canvas element dot.
The first one is going to be with the same way that we that we drew rectangles first we had with and
then we had height the same way that we had four circles first we had with and then we had enough for
soccer.
We had a position.
So first we have with and then we have canvas start.
Now when I save it, you're going to see the stars being moved.
And this is the cool thing.
Now, there are a few problems here that the stars are being finished.
They're not being redrawn again here.
After the frame is being is being done, you can see that the stars and we are going to fix that.
Don't worry about that.
OK, but the cool thing is that the star is actually moving.
But we know under the hood the star is being redrawn thousands of times.
And after it has been redrawn in the next frame, all the previous frames are being cleared, that's
what we did here.
That's how motion picture works.
That's how all the animations, all the animations, I'm not going to call anyone.
I'm not going to say the name of any animations, but all the animations that you see on TV that you
see that go to cinemas like movie theaters, everything that you see on the screen, that's how it works.
And this is how it works in the world of JavaScript.
The idea is the same.
The implementation is different.
This is how it works in JavaScript world.
Right.
So we were able to do all this cool stuff.
Now, in the next lecture, what we are going to do is we are we want to whenever this starts, let
me refresh that.
Whenever this this starts, they move off the screen.
We want to redraw them in this part of the screen.
We want to not redraw them, reposition them to the other.
So any star that it's like Miss Pacman, if you have played it, if you go out of this side, you're
going to appear off the other side.
It's exactly like that.
We are going to do that.
That is one of the basic things that we have in game development.
If you go out if you go into the one side, for example, if you go inside the left, you're going to
be shown, you're going to come out of the right.
If you go towards the type, you're going to come from the bottom, you're going to appear from the
bottom.
So when they go to the left, we want them to be appeared from to the right.
From the right, if they go and vice versa.
If they go to the top, we want them to be appeared from the bottom and also vice versa.
So see you guys in the next one.